Kyberslash countermeasure explanation (#184)
sehlen-bsi/botan-docs: docs/cryptodoc/src/05_08_kyber.rst

The public member functions ``Ciphertext::from_bytes`` and ``Ciphertext::to_bytes`` use this to realize **L. 1/L. 2 of Alg. 6** [Kyber-R3]_ and **L. 21/L. 22 of Alg. 5** [Kyber-R3]_, respectively.
The compression and decompression with :math:`d=1` are performed simultaneously with :math:`\mathsf{Encode}_1` and :math:`\mathsf{Decode}_1` within the methods ``Polynomial::to_message`` and ``Polynomial::from_message``, respectively (used in **L. 4, Alg. 6** and **L. 20, Alg. 5** [Kyber-R3]_).

Compression in Kyber requires division by the Kyber constant ``q``. However,
this division may introduce timing side-channels on some platforms.
Botan uses the ``ct_divide_by`` function to address this issue, which performs
constant-time division by a value known at compile-time. This function leverages
a technique described in [HD]_, where the fraction ``n/q`` is extended by a
specific constant ``m`` to become ``(m*n)/(m*q)``. Here, ``m`` is chosen so that
``(m*q)`` is reasonably close to a power of two ``2^p``. For integer division, it holds that
``n/q = (m*n)/(2^p)`` for all ``n`` is smaller than a boundary ``2^W``.
The boundary constant ``W`` is chosen to encompass all possible numerators

> encountered in Kyber's compression functions. The values of ``m`` and ``p`` are
> derived using the algorithm outlined in Chapter 10.9 of [HD]_ at compile-time
> by means of a C++20 ``consteval`` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
encountered in Kyber's compression functions. The values of ``m`` and ``p`` are
derived using the algorithm outlined in Chapter 10.9 of [HD]_ at compile-time
by means of a C++20 ``consteval`` function. Hence, instead of a potentially
variable-time division, the compiled runtime code will always perform a
multiplication (by ``m``) followed by a right-shift (by ``p`` bits), both of which are
constant-time operations.
```

The implementation of the algorithms :math:`\mathsf{Compress}_q(x,d)` and :math:`\mathsf{Decompress}_q(x,d)` of [Kyber-R3]_ are optimized for all occurring values of :math:`d`.
The compression with :math:`d=d_u` and :math:`d=d_v` [#kyber_du_dv]_ is implemented in two respective ``Ciphertext::compress`` methods, i.e., one for polynomial vectors and one for polynomials. The same holds for decompression via ``Ciphertext::decompress_polynomial_vector`` and ``Ciphertext::decompress_polynomial``.
The public member functions ``Ciphertext::from_bytes`` and ``Ciphertext::to_bytes`` use this to realize **L. 1/L. 2 of Alg. 6** [Kyber-R3]_ and **L. 21/L. 22 of Alg. 5** [Kyber-R3]_, respectively.
The compression and decompression with :math:`d=1` are performed simultaneously with :math:`\mathsf{Encode}_1` and :math:`\mathsf{Decode}_1` within the methods ``Polynomial::to_message`` and ``Polynomial::from_message``, respectively (used in **L. 4, Alg. 6** and **L. 20, Alg. 5** [Kyber-R3]_).

> Compression in Kyber requires division by the Kyber constant ``q``. However,
> this division may introduce side-channels on platforms where the division
> instruction is not constant time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compression in Kyber requires division by the Kyber constant ``q``. However,
this division may introduce timing side-channels on some platforms.
```

Botan uses the ``ct_divide_by`` function to address this issue, which performs
constant-time division by a value known at compile-time. This function leverages
a technique described in [HD]_, where the fraction ``n/q`` is extended by a

> specific constant ``m`` to become ``(m*n)/(m*q)``. Here, ``(m*q)`` is chosen to
> be close to a power of two ``2^p``. For integer division, it holds that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specific constant ``m`` to become ``(m*n)/(m*q)``. Here, ``m`` is chosen so that
`(m*q)`` is reasonably close to a power of two ``2^p``. For integer division, it holds that
```

``n/q = (m*n)/(2^p)`` for all ``n`` is smaller than a boundary ``2^W``.
The boundary constant ``W`` is chosen to encompass all possible numerators

> encountered in Kyber's compression functions. The values of ``m`` and ``p`` are
> derived using the algorithm outlined in Chapter 10.9 of [HD]_. This computation
> is performed at compile-time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
encountered in Kyber's compression functions. The values of ``m`` and ``p`` are
derived using the algorithm outlined in Chapter 10.9 of [HD]_ at compile-time,
by means of a C++20 `consteval` function.
```

this division may introduce timing side-channels on some platforms.
Botan uses the ``ct_divide_by`` function to address this issue, which performs
constant-time division by a value known at compile-time. This function leverages
a technique described in [HD]_, where the fraction ``n/q`` is extended by a
specific constant ``m`` to become ``(m*n)/(m*q)``. Here, ``m`` is chosen so that
``(m*q)`` is reasonably close to a power of two ``2^p``. For integer division, it holds that
``n/q = (m*n)/(2^p)`` for all ``n`` is smaller than a boundary ``2^W``.
The boundary constant ``W`` is chosen to encompass all possible numerators
encountered in Kyber's compression functions. The values of ``m`` and ``p`` are
derived using the algorithm outlined in Chapter 10.9 of [HD]_ at compile-time
by means of a C++20 ``consteval`` function. Hence, instead of a potentially
variable-time division, the compiled runtime code will always perform a
multiplication (by ``m``) followed by a right-shift (by ``p`` bits), both of which are
constant-time operations.
To ensure the correctness of the algorithm and its implementation, we thoroughly

> test the division function with all possible numerators.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tested the division function with all possible numerators.
```
Remark: this is a rather unusual sentence for the crypto documentation. Maybe this should be omitted or should go in the test suite or so.
